---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

My name is Jennifer Valenzuela, and I am a Master’s student in the Latin American and Iberian Studies program at the University of California, Santa Barbara. As a first-generation student, my educational journey started at the University of California, Riverside, where I had the opportunity to create an R’course on Peru’s Internal Armed Conflict from 1980 to 2000. R’courses are student-initiated courses based on original ideas that aim to teach undergraduates how to implement democratic pedagogy, a theory that everyone in the classroom is equal. This unique project and my family’s experience of living through the conflict inspired me to research the Internal Armed Conflict in Peru. This research, which has culminated in my Master’s thesis, tentatively titled Memory Struggles in Peru: The Attacks of Memorial Places in Lima and Ayacucho, aims to provide a deeper understanding of the challenges surrounding the memory of the conflict.

My research interests lie in Peru’s Internal Armed Conflict from 1980-2000, specifically on the challenges surrounding the memory of the conflict in the last eighteen years. My research delves into the physical and verbal attacks spanning the years 2007 to 2025 surrounding memory places and the members and representatives of the Place of Memory Tolerance and Social Inclusion (LUM), the monument The Eye that Cries, as well as the Museum of Memory created by the National Association of Relatives of Kidnapped, Detained and Disappeared of Peru (ANFASEP), the first museum of its kind in Peru. Currently, I am analyzing how the physical and verbal attacks against these memory places reflect ultra-right conservative groups and organizations’ attempt to reshape or silence narratives about the Internal Armed Conflict that challenge state crimes, expose military abuses, or threaten the reputation of politicians who were in power during the period of violence.

Additionally, my research draws on interdisciplinary methods, including history and political analysis, memory studies, and fieldwork, to understand the power dynamics in memory practices. My research aims to provide insight into what these attacks reveal about the state's strategies to reshape and silence local memories of the Internal Armed Conflict. It also explores the implications for the future of memorial sites that prioritize the experiences of victims and their testimonies, focusing on the mission to preserve truth and justice in Peru.

Outside academic commitments, I enjoy reading, watching movies, and film photography. My outdoor hobbies include running, pickleball, and scenic walks to shoot some film.